A blockchain can be thought of as a type of database,
which means that we can plug it in as a server or the backend part of a Web service.
Doing so allows the information to be consumable by a client application.
Now, you might be wondering, does every blockchain need to interact with Web service?
That's what we'll be discussing in this section.
What to consider when deciding if
your blockchain use case requires integrating with the Web service.
So here are some considerations when deciding if
your blockchain should or should not integrate with the Web service.
First, if your'e in your use case,
consumers require a user interface in order to interact with the application,
then a Web service is needed.
With a Web service, you can configure the application
with the blockchain service to be consumable over the Internet.
Let's see an example of this.
Say we have a blockchain that contains medical health records.
This blockchain contains private patient data such as the patient's name,
their diagnosis, and their vitals.
Saving data on the blockchain allows it to be
securely encrypted and decrypted into a digest,
so that only those with proper access such as
health care providers can rightfully access it.
Integrating the blockchain with a Web service
allows our healthcare providers to securely retrieve,
view, and edit this data.
Some more things to consider if you have a Web service integrated with the blockchain,
are whether or not every client needs to communicate with its own app instance.
Also, is there a desire for no central server?
This can be a safeguard if something were to happen to that central server.
Well, in this case, using a web service
integrated with a blockchain is likely to be a good choice.
Alternatively, it's important to remember that
not every blockchain situation requires integrating with the Web service.
Remember, certain tasks can be handled without using a Web service.
For example, executing a contract can be done without using
a Web service by just using
a dedicated wallet or directly from the command line terminal.
Also, if you're building
a mobile application that communicates with the blockchain platform directly,
then there's no need for a Web service.
To recap, we discussed the considerations to think about when
determining if a blockchain should or should not integrate with the web service.
Remember that there are pros and cons to each decision.
So, take the due diligence to research
the implications doing so will have on your project when faced with this question.
Now, can you think of at least one more reason
a blockchain should and should not integrate with the Web service?
I'd like you to take some time to think it over.
Research some real life use cases online and then write about it in the following quiz.
Doing so will better prepare you the next time
that you're presented with the blockchain and a Web service.
Next up, let's understand how
the private blockchain that you built will integrate with the Web service.